To be an expert in strategy and to
understand the business in general,
you must be able to perform a
good external analysis of the
environment in which a company is.
In general, to make a strategic
diagnosis you have to know yourself
well, you have to know what your
strengths are, what your
weaknesses are, and you
also have to know how to look
outside and analyze what is
out there and how it will affect
what is out there.
This is what we call external analysis.
As I said, it is a key competence
you will acquire in this course.
Why is it?
Because companies are not alone,
they are not living isolated.
All companies compete within a sector
in which there is a competitive
dynamic, there are forces and
are also affected by another
series of factors, factors
of all kinds over which they
have no control, political,
economic factors, etc.
And in this course what we will
do is learn certain tools
and certain concepts that will
help you to analyze the environment
more deeply to perform
an external analysis.
We will do it in six classes.
In each of the classes we will
analyze the environment from a different
perspective.
The first five classes are devoted
to analyzing the sector in which
the industry competes and the
last class we call the macroenvironment
analysis.
Now let's see what it is.
How will we analyze the sector?
Well, the first thing I want you to
be able to analyze the attractiveness
that a sector has.
If it is big, it will grow.
And here we will use, to analyze
the profitability of the sector,
we will use a well-known tool,
which you must know and understand
very well, which is the five forces
of Michael Porter, which
will allow us to very much simply
and intuitively identify or
anticipate what will be the
sustained profitability
that we can get in an industry,
in a sector.
We will deepen into a concept that
you probably know, such as entry
barriers, the degree of protection
that there is around the companies
that compete within a sector,
makes increasing profitability.
This is a concept you need to understand
well.
And what we will do is identify
what are the factors that
generate that there is an
entry barrier.
We will study the life cycle.
The product's life cycle.
All products and sectors go
through a series of phases
or cycles and in each of them
particular circumstances are given.
It competes differently, the advantages
turn out to be different competitive
advantages, the growth strategies
are different, etc.
It is a very well-known model
that you have probably heard of
and we will go deeper into that.
We need to understand the structure
of a business.
And what we will do is work with
concepts like whether the sector
is concentrated or fragmented
or automated.
Why is it?
Because sectors depending on the degree
of concentration that there is within
the sector change a lot of things.
It changes profitability, changes competitive
struggle, etc.
Another key factor in the structure of
the sectors is the fact that they are
more or less differentiated.
Of all the proposals if they are
very differentiated, the value
proposals of the different
competitors, as their own name
indicates, are very different
from each other.
And at the other end, at the lower
degree of differentiation, we
would have the very commoditized
markets, in which the customer
perceives that everyone is equal.
As with the rest of the analysis
perspectives, the fact that a
sector is more differentiated
or more commoditized has
a huge implication on many
things.
The competitive dynamics of a sector
depending on whether it is differentiated
or commoditized are very
different.
The profitability that is
obtained, the customer relationships,
the competitive struggle, etc.
That's all I want you
to understand.
Finally, we will look at the
macroeconomic situation.
The macro-environment is called
external factors.
It has nothing to do with the
sector, but external factors,
political, economic, social and
technological, affecting in greater
or lesser degree all companies.
To do this, we use a tool
called PEST, which is the acronym
for the factors I have said, and
that allows you to take a look
at what the factors are, how
they affect you and to what extent.
This is done to anticipate
threats or identify opportunities.
As I said, this is a competition
you have to acquire.
You must be able to do an external
analysis.
We will incorporate concepts.
It is a fairly simple course.
I think it is a fun course.
And it is also a necessary and basic
course for everyone who wants to
be an expert in business and
business strategy.